---
tags:
  - applications
---

Computer Science Summer Institute – Intermediate Track  
  
Curriculum Overview  
  
The fundamental question this course aims to address is how does one  
analyze real-world data so as to understand the corresponding  
phenomenon.  Students will learn critical concepts and skills in  
computer programming related to statistical inference, in conjunction  
with hands-on analysis of real-world datasets, including economic  
data, health data, geographical data, and social networks.   Planned  
topics include machine learning, data analytics, and statistical  
modeling classically employed for prediction. The program will be a  
blend of theoretical and practical instruction, providing a  
comprehensive, hands-on overview of the Data Science domain.  
  
Hands-on projects will form the bulk of the work for the class and  
will seek to teach students the data science lifecycle: data selection  
and cleaning, feature engineering, model selection, and prediction  
methodologies.  
  
Program Dates: June 24, 2024 – July 12, 2024  
  
Program Type: Commuter  
  
Program Eligibility: 10th-12th grade in Spring 2024*  
  
Application deadline: June 1, 2024  
  
Enrollment deadline: June 15, 2024  
  
*All participants must be at least 15 years of age by the first day of  
Summer Sessions 2024 on June 24th, no exceptions allowed.  
  
  
  
---
  
UCLA Summer Sessions students are expected to contribute to a safe,  
supportive, and academically rigorous community. Consequently, a key  
attribute of a UCLA Summer Sessions student is integrity. How do you  
define integrity and how would you exemplify that value if admitted to  
UCLA Summer Sessions?:  
  
Minimum words: 1  
Maximum words: 250  
Word Count:  
  
Computer Science Summer Institute Intermediate: Supplemental Questions  
  
Do you have any experience related to data science?*  
  
Maximum words: 200  
Word Count:  
  
What has motivated you to apply to the CSSI intermediate track?*  
  
Maximum words: 500  
Word Count:  
  
What do you expect to learn from the CSSI intermediate track?*  
  
Maximum words: 500  
Word Count:  
  
Are you comfortable with programming in python?*  
  
Maximum words: 100  
Word Count:  
  
Please list any advanced math courses you have taken. Are you  
comfortable with math concepts such as function, gradient/derivative,  
vector and matrix, probability, mean, and variance?*  
  
Maximum words: 100  
Word Count:  
  
This is a college-level course and will thus be very intense and  
challenging. Our instructor and learning assistants will help you  
through the whole process. Do you consent to (1) actively participate  
in classes, discussion sessions, and seminars, (2) communicate timely  
with our instructor and learning assistants for any questions and  
difficulties, and (3) befriend and learn from your peers?*  
  
Maximum words: 100  
Word Count:


---


PROFESSOR  
  
Yizhou Sun  
  
Associate Professor  
  
Yizhou Sun is an associate professor at the department of computer  
science at UCLA. She received her Ph.D. in Computer Science from the  
University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 2012. Her principal  
research interest is on mining graphs/networks, and more generally in  
data mining, machine learning, and network science, with a focus on  
modeling novel problems and proposing scalable algorithms for  
large-scale, real-world applications. She is a pioneer researcher in  
mining heterogeneous information network, with a recent focus on deep  
learning on graphs/networks.  
  
Yizhou has over 100 publications in books, journals, and major  
conferences. Tutorials of her research have been given in many premier  
conferences. She received 2012 ACM SIGKDD Best Student Paper Award,  
2013 ACM SIGKDD Doctoral Dissertation Award, 2020 ACM BCB Best Student  
Paper Award, 2013 Yahoo ACE (Academic Career Enhancement) Award, 2015  
NSF CAREER Award, 2016 CS@ILLINOIS Distinguished Educator Award, 2018  
Amazon Research Award, and 2019 Okawa Foundation Research Grant.