

The Maasai community in Tanzania faces a dire shortage of water. The women and children within the community spend many hours a day collecting water. It really wastes their time and uses up an opportunity that could have been used in something else productive, probably education. The subject will play a great role in improving their quality of life and letting them get into both educational and economic activities.

More than that, overcoming this challenge means health, education, and economic sustainability. Speaking from a personal level, it goes hand in hand with my values of justice and benevolence. If not acted upon now, the problem only continues to be a spiral of poverty, limits education, and reduces community growth. The time to address this issue is now, for breaking the cycle of hardship and creating a sustainable future.

This solution exists in the world, and, therefore, the Maasai community can access clean water at ease. This has saved a lot of time and energy that would be invested in developmental activities. Children would have gone to school always and women would engage in economic activities. Better health outcomes and a more equitable society would spring up where every child attains education and everyone participates in the growth of the community without having to bear the problem of water insecurity.

To address the same, we raised more than $75K. Individually, I managed to engage 10 students in realizing the importance of the cause. We conducted our further research on-grounds on identifying what exactly the Maasai Community needed and we worked in association with six international organizations for fundraising, logistical, and research work also and designed and installed water harvesting and filtration units.

I wrote and described the effects of the water harvesting unit to the Maasai Community in a Lions International competition for six countries.

Our efforts reduced the time that Maasai women and children spent walking for water from hours to minutes, bringing great improvement in their lives and making it possible for children to go to school more often. We supported gender equity and community development. I learned how global awareness and collaborative leadership are so important. We gained values in compassion and equity and showed possibilities for innovative approaches to addressing global problems. Project scale continued as we moved past half a decade of work on this.