Perhaps the most effective way to understand the Gospels is to look at how they came to be written Scholars who have studied the New lestamen, have identified at least three Majer WES in the Gospels' development: 1. During the time thatJesus lived urked, he had profound effect on his disciyites. 2. After the death and Resurrection of Jesus, the disciples and the early church pre: luimed the Good News throughout the Roman E: npire. 3. Later, the Gospels were actually written by the Evangelists, who likely served as editors or collectors of material that had gradually developed through the years. Stage 1: Jesus of Nazareth and His Disciples It would seem to go without saying that the Gospels are based on the words and works ofJesus of Nazareth, historical figure from the land of Palestine who lived some two thousand years ago. However, the recognition and acceptance of this truth is central to our understanding and appre- ciation of the Gospels. For if the Gospels are not based on historical realities-if Jesus' proclamations and Resurrection never happened-then all that they teach is little more than flight of fancy or an idealistic vision. It is essential to recognize that the foundation of the events and meaning recorded in the Gospels is Jesus of Nazareth, man, historical figure, one whose blood flowed through flesh as truly as does our own. \ttem Markin Shutterstock The Basic Facts What can we say about Jesus that can be accept- ed even by those who do not accept him as the Messiah, the Christ, the Son of God? From the Gospels and other sources, we are certain of the following points: Jesus was born Jew sometime around the year B.c.g. "in the time of King Herod... in Bethlehem of Judea" (Matthew 2: 1). He was raised in the small village of Nazareth. As he grew, he learned and practiced the trade of car- pentry. village of Nazareth. 31 The Gospels At about age thirty, Jesus began public career of preaching and teaching, proclaiming the beginning of new era, which he called the Kingdom of God. He apparently demonstrated some unusual powers and was referred to by historians of his day as worker of wonderful deeds. Jesus' preaching and actions stirred great inter- est among the Jewish people, leading some to proclaim him as great prophet and others to reject him as sorcerer, magician, someone who lacked reverence for God, and threat to Photo: Old Nazareth. Historians and Scripture scholars allke agree that Jesus was raised In the small 32The Gospels the Roman state. Those in power eventually brought him to trial, found him guilty of crimes under Roman law, and had him executed by crucifixion sometime around the year 30 C.E. Virtually all people of any religious persuasion or belief could accept this much about Jesus sim- ply by being open to historical records. However, the early Christians-both Jesus' immediate followers and those who had not known him while he walked the earth-clearly believed him to be much more than just man, more than just Jesus of Nazareth. They also believed him to be the awaited Messiah of Israel and God's only Son. The Resurrection: The Pivotal Event That which led the early Christians to believe that Jesus was more than just an extraordinary person was the event that his followers claim to have experienced after his death. This event com- pletely and radically changed their understanding of everything Jesus had said and done while he walked the dusty roads of Palestine. What the followers of Jesus claimed was this: He did not remain dead. About three days after he had been savagely executed on the cross, they experienced him alive again and present among them. Belief in the Resurrection of Jesus became the identifying mark of all those who claimed Jesus as their Lord and Savior. Jesus' rising from the dead made his whole earthly existence-all that he had said and done prior to this event-believable and acceptable as truth. Without the Resurrection, the followers of Jesus would likely have run away in fear of their own execution. But with the experi- ence of the risen Jesus, they burst forth from their places of hiding and began proclaiming that by raising him from the dead "God has made him both Lord and Messiah, this Jesus whom you crucified" (Acts of the Apostles 2:36). ra Photo: The Via Dolorosa road in the old city of Jerusalem, the path believed to have been taken by Jesus on the way to the Crucifixion, Osvarshik Calling Jesus "Lord" was radical expression of the first Christians' belief in the divinity of Jesus. When the Jewish people spoke of God, they used the title Lord instead of Yahweh, the name revealed to Moses, because God's actual name was considered too sacred to be spoken. So to call Jesus Lord was to say that he had divine identity-a claim that shocked many Jews who heard the first Christians' proclamation. (The uppercase use of the word Lord, which is divine title, should not be confused with the lowercase use of the word lord, which is another word for "master.") The Resurrection and its meaning will be discussed more fully in chapter 10 of this course, but this much can be said now: the belief in Jesus' living presence after death is so central to the lives of Christians that Saint Paul, one of the most influ- ential of all the early Christians, was led to say, "If Christ has not been raised, then our proclamation has been in vain and your faith has been in vain" (1 Corinthians 15: 14). Christ: Not Jesus' Last Name Some people in Jesus' time immediately reject- ed the proclamation of the Resurrection. They thought the news foolhardy, ridiculous, insane. For them, Jesus would remain only the carpenter's son who preached radical message and paid for it with his life. But others were nearly overwhelmed by the conviction that the proclamation of the Resurrection was true-that Jesus had in fact been raised by God from death itself and that he truly was, and would be forever, Lord and Savior. For these people, Jesus was clearly much more than carpenter's son. For the early Christians, Jesus was also truly the Christ. Unfortunately, over the years many people have come to think of the title Christ as simply kind of last name or family name for Jesus. In fact, howPhoto: Jesus' living presence in the world was obvious to those who believed in his Resurrection. 33 The Gospels ever, he was never known by that name during his earthly life. The name Jesus was common one for Jewish boys. It is our translation of Jesus' Hebrew name, Yeshua, which he would have heard when called by his parents and others. The name Yeshua means literally "Yahweh (God) saves" or "Yahweh (God) is salvation." But the title Christ means literally "anointed one." It is based on the Greek word Christos, which is itself translation of the Hebrew word messiah. As will be discussed in more detail later, the Jewish people had long awaited the Messiah, "the one sent from God," the one who would save them from all oppression. To those Jews who accepted Jesus as the Messiah after his Resurrection, he became known as Jesus the Christ, which in turn became rather quickly shortened to what we now know as single name: Jesus Chirist. This development may have been an unfortunate one, for it clouds to some degree the recognition of tremendous conviction held by Christiansthat the Jesus of History is truly the Christ of Faith. "one ©MShep2 iStock ORyan Rodrick Beiler Shutterstock This realization ofJesus as the Christ overwhelmed the disciples, and the whole of their experience of his life, death, and Resurrection marks the first stage of the development of the Gospels. Photo: The week before Easter, Christians from all over the world walk to commemorate Jesus' journey from the Mount of Olives to Jerusalem on Palm Sunday. Stage 2: The Disciples and the Early Community of Faith What Would You Do? Try to imagine yourself in the position of an early disciple of Jesus. You, along with the rest of the disciples, walk with Jesus; you hear his inspir. ing message proclaimed from the synagogues and hillsides; you touch him and are touched by him; and you witness the marvelous effect he has on everyone he meets. Gradually you find yourself captivated by this man and his message. You find in him the answer to all your hopes and dreams, and you are certain that in this man from Nazareth you have discovered true freedom, joy, peace, love, and fullness of life. But then you see the horror of Calvar. Jesus, whom you so deeply love, stretched out against the sky, nailed to beam of wood, cuir all your dreams and hopes along with nim his death. You and so many who believed it tit. run away in fear shattered, hopeless, cons: that all he promised was sham, lie, or at the -ery less least terrible mistake. But then comes Easter. Suddenly you lave the overwhelming experience of Jesus present ayiin, alive and truly with you in fact, even morc truly with you than he was before. He is risen! kven death is conquered in this man! Incredible joy and peace surge into your heart, and you run from your place of hiding, shouting from the rooftops: "He's alive! Everything he told us is true!" Now, what will you do next? It is doubtful that you will immediately sit down and begin to write an essay on what you have experienced. For one thing, you need some time just to sort out the sig- nificance of the incredible events that have taken place. Also, because of Jesus' promise at the time Bal Cirisphoto Shutterstock of his Ascension into heaven-that he will come again to fully establish God's Kingdom-many of his followers are anticipating the almost certain end of the world as they know it. Perhaps based on misunderstanding of some of the things Jesus taught, they believe that he will come back soon-within their lifetime. These people believe that they have little time to make up their mind about him. They suppose that either they will turn from their past ways, repent of their sins, and accept Jesus as Lord and Savior, or they will perish. Some Christians are even advising against marriage, and some are refusing to take jobs, feeling that these are silly considerations when the end of the world is right around the corner. With all of this commotion and speculation, writing about your experiences seems to be unnecessary. You have more important things to do. The Good News spread like wildfire throughout the Roman 35 The Gospels Spreading the Word Near and Far The situation just described is exactly the one the early Christians found themselves in after the Resurrection. Rather than write about their experiences with Jesus, they began an intense missionary campaign to proclaim his life, death, and Resurrection to all people. In matter of decades, the proclamation of the Good News of Jesus spread like wildfire throughout the Roman Empire-from Palestine, where it had begun, out to Egypt, Syria, Greece, Asia Minor, and ultimately into the capital city of Rome itself (at that time, Rome was often referred to as the ends of the earth). Though it was clear to the early Christians that preserving their message for the future was not necessary-there was, after all, no "future" expected-they did not lose any of their love for the past. In fact, it was only in terms of history that Jesus' followers understand him. lhey began to see how so inuch of what he had said and done took on meaniry only in light of the ideas and past events recorded "he fewish Bible. As Saint Paul was to sav tk. iow Jews, "And we bring you the good news that what God promised to our ancestors he has fulfilled for us, their children, by raising Jesus" (Acts of the Apostles 13:32-33). This idea of the promises of God fulfilled in Jesus became fundamental part of the preaching of the early Christians as they spread the word across the land. ty Words and Deeds to Remember It was within the context of preaching the Good News throughout the land that the pro- cess of picking and choosing what to remember lessons from his teaching were used to instruct about Jesus was begun. Incidents from his life and Photo: Caesarea, Mediterranean port in Palestine named after the was stop in the travels of the church's early missionaries. Empire. Roman emperor Augustus Caesar, Bay, people who were interested in joining the com- munity of faith. Reflections on his life in terms of the prophecies in the Jewish Bible became part of Christian worship services. And perhaps most important, Jesus' words were not only recalled but applied to the experiences of the early Christians as they began to share and celebrate and live out his message in their daily life. In other words, Jesus' life and words and works were never recorded in logical, day-by-day, bio- graphical fashion. Not all the available information about Jesus was preserved, but only those events and works and teachings that had particularly profound effect on the early Christians. In many cases this meant eliminating descriptive details from the accounts. For example, if we look at the Gospel stories of Jesus' miracles, we find Illustration: While sharing meals, the early Christians passed on Stories about Jesus and his teachings, and reflected on the meaning of his message for their own daily life. only the briefest descriptions, which often makes the stories seem stark and unreal. Or sometimes Jesus' words as recorded in the Gospels are so direct, so straight to the point, that they seem harsh. For several decades this information about Jesus was shared primarily by word of mouth among the Christians, developing into what is called an oral tradition. On the basis of these carefully selected and highly polished recollections, and from their application to the early church's expe- rience, the Gospels would eventually be written. Many examples from the Gospels will be used throughout this course. In pursuing an under- standing of Jesus and his message, it is important to not lose sight of this "oral tradition" stage in the development of the Gospels. 38 The Gospels Stage 3: The Early Community of Faith and the Evangelists Jesus died around the year 30 CE, but it was approximately forty more years before the first Gospel was written. Only after proclaiming the Good News and developing an oral tradition did the early Christians decide that the free-floating stories and words and teachings ofJesus should be collected into permanent records by the editors we call the Evangelists. It is generally held that the first Gospel written was Mark's, around the year 70 c.z. Luke's and Matthew's Gospels were perhaps written during the middle to late eighties; and John's Gospel, not until as late as 90 to 100. More will be said about the Evangelists and their unique Gospels in moment, but first there is more basic subject to address: What brought about this third stage in the Gospels' development, the actual writing of them? There seem to have been at least two major factors: the passage of time and the need for continued instruction. The Passage of Time By the latter half of the first century, the followers of Christ had begun to be recognized as "church," that is, something more than just radical Jewish fringe group. As Christians slowly realized that Jesus was not going to return in glory as quickly as they had hoped, it became clear that the community of faith would probably be around for long time. With the realization that the church did indeed have future, it became necessary to find means for preserving its teachings and passing them on to future generations. This was certainly one of the motives for developing the Gospels as we now have them. Fold piece of paper in half to create two vertical columns. Title the left column "Oral Storytelling" and the right col- umn "Written Storytelling." List at least five benefits and five shortcomings of each type of sto- rytelling. For example, what can be done with an oral story that cannot be done with written one, and vice versa? The preservation of Jesus' message fo, futy generations was not the only reason for ing the available material about Jesus into fy, Gospels. There was also continuing po instruct and inspire the already existing com of faith that had been formed throy he Gospel writers gathered piece, fron since his death and Resurrection. Then the Write assembled these pieces into coherent Story tha would respond to the needs of particular aud, ence in particular location at particular This accounts for the fact that each of the Gospe, is unique and that certain activities and Words Jesus recorded in one of the Gospels appear to}, described or expressed differently in another, The Need for Continued Instructjo, Col} Cd nities the Roman Emp ade, ire during the previous de gh missionary Each of mong all the stories about Jesus that had emer ae ae ve @Evy Abrahamson Illustration: Each Gospel writet gathered pieces from the stories told about Jesus and assembled them into coherent story? complete Gospel. Common Trends Weederabating at Anne, oui, we ound We ene ler tee die poet bey ately dan EINE Wille: Review Pe th cof Wines Ihe Gospels The Gospels: lour Portraits of Jesus vine) Matthew, Mark, ann mtd wellleag avellalde to tiie caver ariel ven fants, recalled aay after day da ated ter Efe eget beans by pea her about the Th aed niente